Editor’s note: Raquel Welch originally spoke to the Post for this story in 2012. It was updated after the actress’ death on Feb. 15 at the age of 82. These days, the ranks of our female sex symbols are legion. But in the ’60s and ’70s, there was one who towered head, shoulders and cleavage above all others: Raquel Welch. The screen siren is being celebrated by the Film Society of Lincoln Center, which is screening 10 of her films, some of which Welch will attend for Q&A sessions, Friday to Feb. 14. Now 71, Welch was recently ranked No. 2 on Men’s Health’s list of the 100 Hottest Women of All Time. Jennifer Aniston is No. 1, and Welch says she’s just fine with that: “I love her,” she tells The Post. “I love her comedy. And I think she’s got a rockin’ body!” In advance of the retrospective, Welch looked back at a handful of her classic roles. “There was this [bikini] picture that came out that caused all the stir. I had been away shooting the film in the Canary Islands, and it was very remote. By the time I got back, everybody seemed to know who I was. I couldn’t have been happier, really, or more surprised. How was this possible? “When the [doeskin] bikini would get wet, it would stretch, so you’d be coming up and out of the water and there were a lot of strange things going on with it.” “My co-star was Stephen Boyd, who was not hard on the eyes. I had a terrible crush on him. I was too scared to say anything about it because it was my first big movie with Fox, and I was in with a lot of heavyweights. I had one really important line to say, and it was something to do with oxygenation, which I had written down on a piece of scenery so I could glance at it before they called me. It was kind of silly.” “This we shot in the Spanish desert, with Jim Brown and Burt Reynolds. I got to do all the things that the guys got to do. There was one big conversation about whether I could wear a pair of pants. The director said, ‘No.’ But my character is a revolutionary! She’s with a band of guys — is she going to worry about a skirt? I did get to wear pants, because I had this idea of how I wanted to stab this one guy, that I could jump on him. And I couldn’t do that with a skirt.” “I thought the book was hysterically funny. And I heard they were talking to Anne Bancroft about doing the part, but then she had turned it down. So I had a conversation with them, I said, ‘I don’t know what kind of person you’re looking for, but what about the idea that if a guy was going to remake himself into a woman, would he maybe like to look like Raquel Welch?’ They said, ‘You know, that’s a thought!’ But the script was always problematic. I was really disappointed. I spoke to [co-star] John Huston about it. He said, ‘It’s only a movie, darling, it’s only a movie.’ ” “My first day on set, Faye Dunaway comes over to me all dolled up, and she was so cute. She said, ‘Darling, I just want you to know, I’m a big fan of yours. But don’t you know, they’re all just waiting for us to tear each other’s eyes out. So let’s have fun with them.’ Everyone on set was going, ‘Uh-oh, here they come,’ standing there watching. And Faye gets out her fan and starts fanning herself, saying, ‘Darling, I adore your work.’ And I say, ‘Everything you do is genius!’ Everyone was so disappointed. “This was a film we did based on the Fatty Arbuckle story, looking at the advent of sound. It’s not at all like ‘The Artist,’ but about that same era. The studio didn’t know what to do with it, because they weren’t expecting Raquel Welch to play a vaudevillian girl from 1929. It was unusual. I was glad to see they were going to show it in the retrospective, because there are people who think all I did was show up in a bikini.” “I was Jugs. I almost didn’t take the part when I realized that. I thought, ‘Oh, no.’ But Peter Yates was directing, and he was first-class. I was embarrassed about the damn title, but you need to have a sense of humor about yourself.”